# Releasing - For maintainers only

This document explains how to publish all opentelemetry-operations-js Node
modules at version x.y.z. Ensure that you’re following semver when choosing a
version number.

- [Example PR #139](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/opentelemetry-operations-js/pull/139)
- [Example Tag v0.4.0](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/opentelemetry-operations-js/releases/tag/v0.4.0)

## Update to latest locally

Use `git fetch` and `git checkout origin/master` to ensure you’re on the latest commit. Make sure
you have no unstaged changes. Ideally, also use `git clean -dfx` to remove all ignored and
untracked files.

## Create a new branch

Create a new branch called `x.y.z-proposal` from the current commit.

## Use Lerna to prepare each package for release

Use below command to initialize all package directories.

```bash
npm install
```

Also, use `lerna publish --skip-npm --skip-git` to bump version numbers.
Ensure that the version being bumped to is `x.y.z`. This should create some unstaged changes.

## Create a new commit

Create a new commit with the exact title: `chore: x.y.z release proposal`.

## Use the Changelog to create a GitHub Release

On [GitHub
Releases](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/opentelemetry-operations-js/releases),
start creating a release and put a changelog generated by git log in the body
(TODO: keep a proper changelog):

```bash
git log --oneline --no-decorate <previous release tag>..HEAD
```

Save it as a draft, don’t publish it. Don’t forget the tag -- call it `vx.y.z`
and leave it pointing at `master` for now (this can be changed as long as the
GitHub release isn’t published).

## Create a new PR

Push the branch to GitHub and create a new PR with that exact name. The commit body should just
be a link to the *draft* notes. Someone who can access draft notes should approve it, looking
in particular for test passing, and whether the draft notes are satisfactory.

## Merge and pull

Merge the PR, and pull the changes locally (using the commands in the first step). Ensure that
`chore: x.y.z release proposal` is the most recent commit.

## Publish all packages

Publish with Wombot (Google).

Go into each directory and use `npm publish` to publish the package. You can use the following
script to automate this.

```bash
#!/bin/bash

for package in $(ls packages/**/package.json); do
  pushd $(dirname $package)
  npm publish
  popd
done
```

## Publish the GitHub Release

Publish the GitHub release, ensuring that the tag points to the newly landed
commit corresponding to release proposal `x.y.z`.

## Update CHANGELOG and release versions in examples
* After releasing is done, you need to update all examples to point to the latest version.
* (TODO: create changelog) In addition, update the CHANGELOG.md and start new
  Unreleased label.
* Create a new commit with the exact title: `Post Release: update CHANGELOG, Examples and ReadMe`.
* Go through PR review and merge it to GitHub master branch.
